---
id: sample-canvases
title: Sample Canvases
sidebar_label: Sample Canvases
---

We've created a set of sample canvases as examples of how build things in
Darklang.

## Common Functionality

[conditionals](https://darklang.com/a/sample-conditionals) - if statements in
Darklang

[cron](https://darklang.com/a/sample-cron) - a CRON set to run every 1 minute

[setcrontorunatspecifictime](https://darklang.com/a/sample-setcrontorunatspecifictime) -
a CRON set to run at a specific time

[datastoremigration](https://darklang.com/a/sample-datastoremigration) -
migrating from an old datastore to a new datastore

[formathtml](https://darklang.com/a/sample-formathtml) - examples of HTML
formatting within Darklang

[match](https://darklang.com/a/sample-match) - match statements in Darklang

[pipeline](https://darklang.com/a/sample-pipeline) - example of a pipeline

[randompluck](https://darklang.com/a/sample-randompluck) - a function that
returns a random result

[returns](https://darklang.com/a/sample-returns) - a variety of samples of
returns

[square](https://darklang.com/a/sample-square) - shows how to implement a simple
function to square an input

## Slack

[slack](https://darklang.com/a/sample-slack) - common Slack functions

[slackmessaging](https://darklang.com/a/sample-slackmessaging) - posting a
message to a Slack channel

[slackmodal](https://darklang.com/a/sample-slackmodal) - incorporating a model
into your Slackbot

[slackoauth](https://darklang.com/a/sample-slackoauth) - integrating with
Slack's OAuth

[slacksigning](https://darklang.com/a/sample-slacksigning) - using a Slack
signing secret

[slackslashcommand](https://darklang.com/a/sample-slackslashcommand) - using a
Slack slash command

[magiceightball](https://darklang.com/a/sample-magiceightball) - a full magic
eight ball Slackbot

For a full Slackbot walk-through, click [here](/walk-throughs/slack-app).

## Twilio

[signin](https://darklang.com/a/sample-signin) - an office sign-in that texts
upon arrival

[textreminder](https://darklang.com/a/sample-textreminder) - get texted
reminders

For a full Twilio tutorial, click [here](/walk-throughs/twilio-app).

## Misc. Integrations

[airtable](https://darklang.com/a/sample-airtable) - examples of common Airtable
API calls

[discord](https://darklang.com/a/sample-discord) - an Overwatch team comp
Discord bot

[freshdesk](https://darklang.com/a/sample-freshdesk) - examples of common
Freshdesk API calls

[github](https://darklang.com/a/sample-github) - examples of common GitHub API
calls

[mailchimp](https://darklang.com/a/sample-mailchimp) - sending a Mailchimp
campaign

[oauth](https://darklang.com/a/sample-oauth) - using Gmail's OAuth flow

[signing](https://darklang.com/a/sample-aws-signing) - AWS signing

[sendgrid](https://darklang.com/a/sample-sendgrid) - sending emails with the
SendGrid API

[twitter api oauth 1.0](https://darklang.com/a/sample-twitter-auth) - using
Twitter's OAuth 1.0 flow

## Full Sample Projects

[emojimood](https://darklang.com/a/sample-emojimood) - use emojis to express
your mood!

[fizzbuzz](https://darklang.com/a/sample-fizzbuzz) - solving FizzBuzz in
Darklang

[login](https://darklang.com/a/sample-login) - a full login flow

[onboarding](https://darklang.com/a/sample-onboarding) - example of an easy to
build project for learning Darklang

---

If you've built something you'd like featured as a sample canvas, let us know by
emailing beta@darklang.com.
